#  What is Automated Testing? 
Automation testing is a Software testing technique to test and compare the actual outcome with the expected outcome. This can be achieved by writing test scripts or using any automation testing tool. 
# Why use Automated Testing?
1. Every software development group tests its products, yet delivered software always has defects. Test engineers strive to catch them before the product is released but they always creep in and they often reappear, even with the best manual testing processes. Test Automation software is the best way to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and coverage of your software testing.
2. An automated testing tool is able to playback pre-recorded and predefined actions, [https://smartbear.com/product/testcomplete/features/automated-ui-testing/] compare the results to the expected behavior and report the success or failure of these manual tests to a test engineer. Once automated tests are created they can easily be repeated and they can be extended to perform tasks impossible with manual testing. Because of this, savvy managers have found that automated software testing is an essential component of successful development projects.
3. Automated software testing has long been considered critical for big software development organizations but is often thought to be too expensive or difficult for smaller companies to implement. SmartBear’s Tools are affordable enough for single developer shops and yet powerful enough that our customer list includes some of the largest and most respected companies in the world.